Kesher Gudal
קשר גודל
merged
https://www.sefaria.org/Kesher_Gudal
This file contains merged sections from the following text versions:
-Sefaria Community Translation
-https://www.sefaria.org

Kesher Gudal



Siman 1

SIMAN ALEF. TO AWAKEN AT THE MORNING WATCH. As soon as you wake up, say "Mode Ani Lefanecha melech rahum..." and you do not need to wash your hands, and some say that you do need to. (Siddur Hashem of Rabbi Ya`aqov Emden)
One must immediately wash his hands properly (according to Jewish law), even if he is not getting up. One should not have a gentile maid, or a Jewess who is a "Nidda", because he can bring on the sitra ahra onto him, and bring bad upon him. (Aharonim)
One should dress properly and awake and midnight, and one who does can defeat his bad inclination (ibid.)
One may not walk four Amot (cubits) without washed hands, this is a very strict matter. If he has no cup near him, he should walk less then four cubits (amot). (ibid.)
 It is is forbidden to recite blessings (or learn Torah) in front of the water used to do Netilat Yadayim, one should pour it out or cover it. (ibid.)
...(After Asher Yatzar) Right away he should recite all the morning blessings until "VaAni Abarchem" (The end of Brikat HaTorah) (AriZ"al)
(I have said that "Right away recite all the blessings...") And this is after he is already dressed properly, (Because) one should not dress and bless (simultaneously), because one may not do other things while reciting blessings. 
 In the night, one should say Vidui (The repentance prayer) and the Tiqqun Hazot (The midnight rite) according to the formula of the Ari Za"l - and the time of midnight is 12 hours after midday (See Birke Yosef, Siman Alef).
(After Tiqqun Hazot,) if one is not able to stay awake until the light of the day, he should sleep, and should not remove his clothing - in order not to enter a doubt wether or not to recite the Birkot HaShahar again (See Birke Yosef, Siman Mem Zayin).
There is an obligation for everyone in every place to arise before sunrise (See Mahaziq Beracha, Siman Alef)
One is able to drink coffee without sugar before sunrise, and even after sunrise before prayer. (See Birke Yosef, Siman Pe Tet)

Siman 2

The required size of the Tallit: It must be large enough to cover the face and body until the chest. (Birke Yosef Siman Tet Zayin)
The Tallit Katan is worn on a garment, and is meant to be slept with, and not removed in a bathroom. (Birke Yosef Siman Het)
The strings (of the sisit) should always be separated. If they were a little stuck together, one may not separated them on Shabbat. (Gan HaMelech Siman Samech He)
When blessing "Lehit'atef B'sisit" with a Sheva under the Bet (B'sisit not Basisit) (Birke Yosef Siman Het).
After blessing do the attifa (wrapping the Tallit around the head like an Arab, '''leaving the face uncovered'''', and first wrapping the left corners on the right shoulder, than on top of those corners {still on the right shoulder} put the right corners). The Aharonim don't rule like the Bet Yaaqob (who rules to cover the face). (Shulhan Aruch Se'if Het) 
The wrapping of the tallit takes place standing.
There is an obligation on everyone to look at the sisit strings and to imagine he is wearing it with techelet (a blue string). (Birke Yosef Siman Het)
On the topic of covering the head with the Tallit, it is clear and obvious, that when saying the blessing he must wrap his head like an Arab (as said above) for the time it takes to walk four amot (about two seconds), and afterward, he can wear it according to his minhag. (Mahaziq Berach Siman Het)
The holes [in the corners of the garment] that hold the sisit, may not be more than three finger breadths [about the size of an adults thumb-nail] away from the edges of the corner. (See Mahaziq Bracha Siman Yud Alef)
One entire string that rips off deems the whole invalid. And if a string rips off [not entirely, but-] at the knot near the whole, deems it invalid. (ibid. Siman Yud Bet)
One who didn't have sisit or tefillin, [and finds some] in the middle of pesuqe deZimra, may make a blessing in the middle of the psalms. (see Birke Yosef Siman Nun Gimel). But not at the end of pesuqe diZimra before Yishtabach, but rather (he should wait till after barechu) between Yishtabach and the Beracha Yosser Or. (Shulhan Aruch ibid.)
One who sleeps with his tallit at night isn't required to make another blessing in the morning (Acharonim in siman Het) 
One may not drag the sisit strings on the floor, and if the tallit is too long, he should take the two back sisiyot and tuck it into his belt. (Birke Yosef Siman Kaf Alef)

Siman 3

He dons in the Tallit Gadol, and afterwards, he dons Tefillin, and this is even though he has a Tallit Qattan already on him always. (Birke Yosef Siman Kaf He)
When walking on his way (to synagogue) a man should be careful to wear Tefillin, both the hand Tefillin and the head Tefillin, and not to be negligent this great and strict Missva because of mockery from others, and from this he he''l be humble in all his ways. Many people only put shel yad